This Mother’s Day, as you’re thinking about your own devoted matriarch, you should also cast your mind across the ocean, to Russia, where Russian mothers are dressing their children much better than you. Really! More often than not, the tots in question have the same sort of polished and put-together ensembles as their sartorially admired mothers. Cases in point: Perm native and supermodel Natasha Poly, who poses beachside in charming summer dresses with her daughter; street style star Natasha Goldenberg, whose little girl has become a much-lensed mini me in her teeny trenchcoats and pint-size Timberlands; Olga Karput, who dresses her daughters in upcoming labels from South Korea; and Olya Thompson, who prefers a more Russian folkloric-inspired style for her progeny. And then, of course, there is leggy mom Elena Perminova, who dotes on her two boys with dapper lilliputian three-piece suits and places her doll-like daughter in confectionary frocks.

This phenomenon of the impeccably attired Russian child may have some historical precedence. Professor Ludmila Shleyfer Lavine, the director of Russian Studies at Bucknell University, says that costuming children in top-tier togs has long been a prized tradition in the region. “It is my sense that this special attention to children’s clothing comes from years of deprivation, especially during World War II, and the lack of luxury items for the duration of the Soviet Union,” explains Lavine, who recalled her own childhood in the region as a time of special sartorial consideration: “My mom made me special clothing you couldn’t get anywhere else.” The popular Moscow-based Five Kids store—a boutique stocked with chic children’s labels like Mini Rodini, Bobo Choses, Someday Soon, and NuNuNu—is owned by Stella Aminova, a mother of six who also cites a Soviet upbringing as a possible reason behind the uptick in attention to kids’ clothes. “For many years there was absolutely nothing to buy,” she says. Not if Karput has anything to say about it. The owner of the Moscow concept store KM20, she enlisted Marques‘Almeida to make its best-sellers in mini versions for a kids’ capsule collection for the shop, noting “there aren’t really that many cool denim pieces for kids!”

For the digitally inclined, there is the popular Instagram turned site @DochkiMateri, which translates to “daughters, mothers” and celebrates stylish moms and their children; Miroslava Duma, Perminova, and Thompson have all made appearances. Ekaterina Mukhina, the site’s creator and a former fashion director of Russian Vogue, was inspired to start the project by her own experiences growing up in the USSR. “In the Soviet Union, there was nothing, but women made themselves beautiful clothes by hand. They tried to be perfect,” she says. “Every day [my grandmother] would put a new collar that she made by hand on my school uniform.” These days not much has changed—but getting a hold of quality fashion comes easier to Mukhina’s daughter than it did for her: “My daughter has gotten to the age where she is now picking my clothes out of my closet!”
